Friends Arizona is a state famous for the grand Canyon,
copper mines and cactuses. If there's one thing that is scarce in this state,
it is rain. However,
having a semi desert climate has not prevented Arizona from being the state with
the fastest growing population in the entire United States,
to give you an idea twice, as many people lived in Arizona today,
as 30 years ago, they just passed the 7 million Mark. In fact,
it is very striking to see how fairly similar neighboring States like Nevada,
New Mexico, and even Utah, each have less than half the population of Arizona.
And you might be asking yourself, so what on earth is going on? Well,
it seems that the answer is obvious.
Demographics offer little doubts today.
30% of Arizona's population is of Hispanic origin compared to only 19%,
30 years ago.
And take notes because the influence of the Hispanic population is only going to
keep growing.
Since 2017 births to Latino mothers are higher than those of any other group.
And of course, over the years,
all this will have an effect on Arizona's electorate people under 18,
can't vote this time around, but it's only a matter of time before they can.
That's why a report from Arizona state university estimates that the Hispanic
proportion of the electorate will grow from 15% in 2010 to 25% by
2030. So difference visual politics. The conclusion is simple.
Arizona state fair helped Donald Trump to reach the white house in 2016 is
becoming increasingly Hispanic. In this video,
we will examine how all this could implement the presidential elections next
Tuesday, 3rd of November and future elections. Yeah.
Stop it.
Friends.
Arizona has historically been a Republican stronghold since the end of world war
II and the victory of Democrat Harry Truman in 1948.
Arizona has supported the Republican party's presidential candidates except in
1996. And on that occasion, bill Clinton won by a landslide. However,
now it seems that all this could be about to change.
Widen leads by eight points in Arizona over time.
The importance of Arizona is considerable, especially for president Trump,
but why? Well, basically,
because it's quite clear that Trump's chances of staying in the white house,
depend on maintaining the support he received in 2016.
The same is also true for the Democrats.
It is actually more important for Biden to win now in Arizona,
which means 11 votes in the electoral college. Then for Clinton,
when he did it in 1996,
and there were only eight votes or in Harry Truman's time.
There were only four.
Arizona is no longer a Republican stronghold could become a major headache for
Republicans for years to come because it's importance in the electoral college
is growing.
That's why Arizona is so important. In 2020,
we are talking about the 11 electoral seats that one candidate wins and the 11th
that the other candidate fails to win. Four years ago,
77 electoral college votes separated Trump and Clinton and of those 77 Arizona
alone would represent 22 votes. Doesn't seem so few now does it.
So the question is could Arizona stop being a guaranteed red state and become a
swing state?
What makes us think that the people of this state are going to vote for Biden or
why they might stay with Trump?
Will Arizona be the state that decides in November who will occupy the white
house for the next four years today on visual politic,
we will answer all these questions, but first let's take a look at some history.
Former sheriff of Maricopa.
Maricopa County is one of 15 counties in Arizona. It is home to Phoenix,
the state's Capitol and most popular city.
And I assure you that we are not exaggerating one bit.
If we say that for many years,
the only news that reach us from here was that concerning Joe Arpaio,
the former sheriff of.
Maricopa.
Joe Arpaio was elected sheriff of Maricopa County in 1993,
when he was 60 years old, he remained in office for 24 years until 2017,
having been reelected up to five times a sheriff,
he was always the Republican party backed candidate.
And he proclaimed himself as the toughest sheriff in the entire USA.
His fame even reached an international level because of his harsh treatment of
prisoners and his persecution of elite.
Immigrants.
The biggest controversies was the tent city jail.
You see before our pal became sheriff,
the number of inmates in Arizona exceeded the maximum allowed in the existing
facilities.
So many inmates were released before they served their time in order to comply
with the rules and to avoid overcrowding.
But our power came up with a solution tents,
A prison made up of tents and watched over from century boxes from which was
hung, a message that read free rooms.
This is how Arizona's prison policy suddenly changed.
All prisoners were sentenced to serve their full sentences because in the end,
if more space was needed, sheriff Arpaio would simply just put up more tense.
Of course the conditions were not exactly the best setting up a campsite in
Arizona. Doesn't seem like a great idea.
Look at this news from just three years ago.
Arizona is housing prisoners in a tent city and is 117 degrees.
That's 47 degrees Celsius, Celsius.
If our power wanted his prison to resemble hell,
he clearly wasn't liking the heat.
Then there are other details that attracted the attention of the media all over
the world.
The prisoners generally convicted of minor crimes were forced to wear pink
underwear and black and white striped suits. The classic costume of a prisoner,
all that was missing,
where the shackles and the ball and trained direct by foot to complete the look
of course human rights organizations denounced the denigrating treatment of
prisoners.
But the point is that deep down our power was delighted to receive such
attention. Of course, in the long run. So much attention creates problems.
And boy has our power.
To share raids.
By the sheriffs to search for illegal immigrants led to accusations of racial
profiling. For years, a federal judge reached that conclusion in 2011,
he ordered our power to end his immigration roundups because they were detaining
people without evidence of having committed any crime.
The veteran sheriff ignore the order. And in 2017,
he was convicted of criminal contempt.
Our Powell was facing a possible sentence of up to six months in prison,
but he has very powerful friends in the 2016 elections.
He showed full support for Donald Trump's presidential candidacy.
So when he was convicted, the president came to his aid and pardoned him.
Sheriff Joe is a Patriot. Sheriff. Joe loves our country.
Sheriff Joe protected our borders and sheriff Joe was very
unfairly treated by the Obama administration,
especially right before an election, an election that he would have won. So,
and he was elected many times. So I stand by my pardon of sheriff, Joe.
And I think the people of Arizona who really know him best would agree with
that.
It was Trump's first pardon and did not meet with the approval of many
Republicans nor with the man who had held the office of Arizona Senator for
three decades. The late John McCain.
Mr. Arpayo was found guilty of criminal contempt for continuing to
illegally profile Latinos, living in Arizona,
based on their perceived immigration status in violation of a judge's order.
The president has the authority to make this pardon, but doing so at this time,
undermines his claim for the respect of ruling law.
As Mr Arpayo has shown no remorse for his actions, John McCain.
Well,
this was the Arizona that supported Trump to become president back in 2016,
Maricopa County,
whose voters reelected our power multiple times recognized in the mogul,
the same anti-immigrant rhetoric and policy proposals.
He had already heard from the former sheriff there. Having said that,
let's see what Arizona has been like during the Trump era.
The president's great wall in 2050.
15, Trump launched his race for the white house.
He soon made clear his views on Mexican immigration.
And they're sending people that have lots of problems and they're bringing those
problems with us. They're bringing drugs,
they're bringing crime they're rapists.
And some I assume are good people. Donald Trump.
Sturman office has grammatically reformed the U S immigration system since
taking office.
His administration has taken more than 400 executive actions on immigration.
So did Trump keep the promises he made four years ago to win over the voters?
Did he deliver on rhetoric that many might dismiss as populist? Well,
it might seem that no, he didn't not at all.
You see the promise to build a wall along the us Mexico border was one of Donald
Trump's most controversial campaign promises.
The magnates spoke of a 1,600 kilometer concrete wall with the rest of the
border secured by natural barriers.
What's more Trump also insisted that Mexico would pay for it and estimated the
cost at around $8 billion. However, four years later,
the reality is that Mexico has not put up a single peso nor has Trump actually
built the wall. It's precious wall
while we're on the subject and internal department of Homeland security report,
estimated that Trump's proposed wall would actually cost $21.6 billion more
than double the magnates estimate.
We're talking about an issue that has been brought up consistently in fights
between Republicans and Democrats.
And as the Democrats have controlled the house of representatives in recent
years, they have blocked the allocation of funds for the wall.
Something that led Trump to declare a national state of emergency regarding the
border in February, 2019,
this declaration made it possible to gain access to $15 billion by diverting
funds, from the fight against drug trafficking and from the military budget.
Since then, the president says the 480 kilometers of warp have been built.
But what if it gets dimension is that 420 of those kilometers have been
replacement of, or repairs to existing border structures that had deteriorated,
but hold on a minute because the world is not the only immigration promise that
candidate Trump made in 2016.
Trump also pledged to deport all undocumented immigrants.
This would have resulted in the expulsion of approximately 11.3 million people
from the United States. However,
the Republican candidates softened his stance on somewhat as the 2016 election
campaign progressed.
Trump reduced to the promise deportations to about two to 3 million people
promising to focus his efforts on driving outgrew tunnels,
gang members and drug trafficking.
Yes.
The reality is that the total number of people deported by Trump and his first
term is around 1 million people.
Although it is true that he has tried to expel more.
He has encountered enormous opposition. In fact,
one of the most controversial measures was this attempt to end of Obama's
immigrant child protection program.
It's had to go all the way to the U S Supreme court to stop him in his tracks,
by ruling against his proposal,
to send to the so-called DACA or deferred action for childhood arrivals,
which protect some 650,000 young people who entered the U S without
papers when they were just children.
The point is that if there's one thing that has changed with Trump,
it has been the discourse.
And don't forget the implements that Hispanics already have in Arizona,
but let's go on. If we're talking about Trump and the year 2020,
it's impossible not to talk about the pesky coronavirus.
And here it is clear that the president has not found a wall capable of stopping
the pandemic.
The numbers in the United States speak for themselves at this point,
more than 8 million infections and more than 220,000 deaths. Well,
the biggest problem for Arizona is that 95% of its population lives in urban
areas.
[Inaudible].
Arizona is currently the 14th, most populous state in the United States.
However,
the fact that the population is more concentrated in cities has increased the
incidents of the virus.
We're talking about the state with the eighth highest number of cases,
more than 230,000 infections and 6,000 deaths at the time of making this video
in the governor of Arizona, Republican,
Doug doosey was forced to decree the confinement of the population from April
1st, for a month and a half.
Friends.
The coronavirus has shattered the terms on which we thought this election would
move Trump bragging about economic growth to Democrats calling for more change
in social issues, such as immigration, but 2020 has changed everyone's lives,
including Americans. Now, if we take a step back and look beyond that,
we will see that if there is one thing that has changed during these past four
years, it has been Arizona listen up now.
More than ever. We need a president who will put service before self
the new Arizona.
We've said it before. Arizona is a historically Republican stronghold and yes,
four years ago, they gave their 11 electoral college votes to Donald Trump.
They trusted the tycoon, but since then,
we have seen many signs of breakup between the president and the Republican
electorate in Arizona.
A key factor has surely been the contempt with which Trump treated Senator John
McCain on several occasions.
War hero. He's a war fighter. He's a war hero because he was captured.
I like people that weren't captured. Okay. I hate that.
Yeah. The former presidential candidates who ran against Obama,
never hesitated to make public his disagreements with the tycoon.
And then there's a individual lives in Phoenix and he's
92 and he weighed 110 pounds when he got out of the German prison camp.
And he said to me, he said, Senator McCain, why does the president not like me?
You know, that's, that's hard to explain to a 92 year old man.
But things go beyond any small controversy.
In addition to the terrible disregard and attacks that Trump directed at McCain,
Arizona actually feels like the guardian of the conservative soul of the
Republican party. The disciples of Senator Barry Goldwater.
[Inaudible].
Walter was a Senator for Arizona for 30 years under the Republican party's
presidential candidate in the 1964 election. He lost a Lyndon Johnson,
but his legacy is considered key to the revival of the conservative movement.
Goldwater relied on a liberal ideology, focused on three goals,
reducing the power of the federal government,
promoting economic and political freedoms and combating communism abroad.
The result had a familiar first and last name, Ronald Reagan.
Not all Republicans. It is a cause of Republican Islam,
concentrations of power, private or public.
Barry Goldwater will always be the Senator from Arizona.
The one history recalls with appreciation and delight
in all the histories of American politics.
He will remain a chapter unto himself.
The rest of us will have to make due as footnotes.
The fact.
Is that the late John McCain was a very critical voice against president Trump,
but six months after the magnate was sworn in McCain was diagnosed with terminal
cancer.
So the voice of Republican conservatism happened to be vindicated by the other
Senator from Arizona, Jeff flake,
condemned to Trump's influence on the conservative movement in a book.
He denounced the Republican party for giving up all its beliefs in ideology,
in exchange for the power offered by someone as authoritarians and populists as
Donald Trump.
This is how the Senator himself explained it when he announced that he would not
run for reelection.
It is clear at this moment that a traditional conservative who believes in
limited government and free markets who is devoted to free trade,
who is pro immigration as a narrow and narrow path and nomination,
and the Republican party,
the party that has so long defined itself by its belief in those things.
I think that the party has been compromised by things like populism.
I admired John McCain, my entire life in 1992,
Mr. Republican Barry Goldwater endorsed the Democrat running for Congress over a
Republican who we felt would not represent the party well.
And so it is because of my conservatism and because of my belief in the
constitution and in the separation of powers.
And because I am gravely concerned about the conduct and behavior of our current
president, that I stand here today, oddly and wholehearted,
to endorse Joe Biden as an extra president of the United States of America.
Jeff.
As Senator ended in 2018 in the Senate election to fill up his vacancy pro-Trump
candidate, Martha McSally was defeated.
It had been 30 years since the democratic party had been able to win one of the
two senatorial seats for Arizona. Well in the upcoming elections,
this November 3rd,
the person who will fill the vacancy after the death of John McCain will also be
chosen. Look, Sally is once again, the Republican candidate.
I had to come up fast, fast,
come on quick, you got one minute,
one minute mother say they don't want to hear this spot that come on.
Let's go quick, quick, quick, quick.
It would be the first time since 1952,
that both senators from Arizona have belongs to the democratic party.
And this aspect of the polls offers little doubt. That is exactly.
Clean. What will happen?
Friends? The feeling is that Trumpism is falling apart in Arizona. In fact,
the Democrats also won the last election for the house of representatives.
And even Joe Arpaio,
Trump's loyal follower has suffered three electoral setbacks.
He lost the Maricopa County Sheriff's race to his democratic opponent.
Then he was pardoned and competed unsuccessfully against Martha McSally for the
Senate seat.
And this time around the Republicans haven't even given him the chance to be
reelected as sheriff, our power star burned out.
Let's see what happens to Trump because the race in Arizona shows signs of
breakdown.
Former Senator Jeff flake,
former Republican Jim Colby throw support behind Joe Biden, Joe Biden.
I'm a Democrat.
I love John McCain.
Is that we have all seen this movie before Republicans in California,
tried to stoke up the fear of illegal immigrants in the 1990s.
And all it did was prop up support of the governor by relying on the popularity
of Arnold Schwartzenegger. But since then, well, hasta LA Vista, baby Hispanics,
never forgave themselves.
And Hispanics are gaining more of a voice in Arizona too.
But now it's your turn.
Do you think Arizona will continue to be a Republican stronghold?
Do you think the Hispanic population will seek payback for Trump's
anti-immigration discourse? Leave your answers in the comments.
So I really hope you've enjoyed this video. Please hit, like if you did,
and don't forget to subscribe for brand new videos.
Don't forget to check out our friends at the reconsider media podcast.
They provided the vocals in this episode that were not mine.
And also this channel is possible because of Patrion and there were patrons on
the platform.
Please consider joining them as supporting our mission of providing independent
political coverage. And as always, I'll see you in the next video.
I'm Brad woods for many, many years,
I was Arizona's Republican.
Who's trying to remember what the constitution is all about. I asked you.